help/develop/how-to/docker_containers.md, before:

<!-- TITLE: Creating a docker container -->

# Docker containers

This document explains how to create a package that is capable of running docker containers on the Datagrok instance. 

## 1. Create a dockerfile

Before we start, get familiar with [docker docs](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/02_our_app/), which are related to the process of application containerizing.

Now, let's create a folder `dockerfiles`. You should put there a Dockerfile with the commands that are needed to build a docker image and run the container. Follow all the best practices for writing dockerfiles in order to make them simple, small and efficient.  

Example of such [Dockerfile](https://github.com/datagrok-ai/public/blob/master/packages/PepSeA/dockerfiles/Dockerfile) is located in PepSeA package.

## 2. Implement the function to get a response

Add code that is responsible for making a request to the container:

```
async function requestAlignedObjects(dockerfileId: string, body: PepseaBodyUnit[], method: string,
  gapOpen: number | null, gapExtend: number | null): Promise<PepseaRepsonse> {
  const params = {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {'Accept': 'application/json', 'Content-Type': 'application/json'},
    body: JSON.stringify(body),
  };
  const path = `/align?method=${method}&gap_open=${gapOpen}&gap_extend=${gapExtend}`;
  const response = await grok.dapi.dockerfiles.request(dockerfileId, path, params);
  return JSON.parse(response ?? '{}');
}
```

To make a request `grok.dapi.dockerfiles.request` is used. You should specify the `dockerfileId` in order to make the request to the right container, `path` and `params` of the request. To get `dockerfileId` do:

```
const dockerfileId = (await grok.dapi.dockerfiles.filter('pepsea').first()).id;
```

That's it! 

## 3. Build and publish

Run webpack and [publish](../develop.md#publishing) your package to one of the Datagrok instances:

```shell
webpack
grok publish dev
```

The return code should be `0` to indicate a successful deployment.

## 4. Test

Now go to Datagrok and open `Manage -> Dockerfiles`. You should see the created container in the list. In order to run it, right click on the container and choose the `Run` option.

Commit message:

Adding gif to the docker_containers.md

help/develop/how-to/docker_containers.md, after:

<!-- TITLE: Creating a docker container -->

# Docker containers

This document explains how to create a package that is capable of running docker containers on the Datagrok instance. 

## 1. Create a dockerfile

Before we start, get familiar with [docker docs](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/02_our_app/), which are related to the process of application containerizing.

Now, let's create a folder `dockerfiles`. You should put there a Dockerfile with the commands that are needed to build a docker image and run the container. Follow all the best practices for writing dockerfiles in order to make them simple, small and efficient.  

Example of such [Dockerfile](https://github.com/datagrok-ai/public/blob/master/packages/PepSeA/dockerfiles/Dockerfile) is located in PepSeA package.

## 2. Implement the function to get a response

Add code that is responsible for making a request to the container:

```
async function requestAlignedObjects(dockerfileId: string, body: PepseaBodyUnit[], method: string,
  gapOpen: number | null, gapExtend: number | null): Promise<PepseaRepsonse> {
  const params = {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {'Accept': 'application/json', 'Content-Type': 'application/json'},
    body: JSON.stringify(body),
  };
  const path = `/align?method=${method}&gap_open=${gapOpen}&gap_extend=${gapExtend}`;
  const response = await grok.dapi.dockerfiles.request(dockerfileId, path, params);
  return JSON.parse(response ?? '{}');
}
```

To make a request `grok.dapi.dockerfiles.request` is used. You should specify the `dockerfileId` in order to make the request to the right container, `path` and `params` of the request. To get `dockerfileId` do:

```
const dockerfileId = (await grok.dapi.dockerfiles.filter('pepsea').first()).id;
```

That's it! 

## 3. Build and publish

Run webpack and [publish](../develop.md#publishing) your package to one of the Datagrok instances:

```shell
webpack
grok publish dev
```

The return code should be `0` to indicate a successful deployment.

## 4. Test

Now go to Datagrok and open `Manage -> Dockerfiles`. You should see the created container in the list. In order to run it, right click on the container and choose the `Run` option. Here is how it looks:

![docker-container](./docker.gif)
